ARCTURUS IN JAVA

This directory contains the Java implementation of Arcturus.

WHICH VERSION OF JAVA?

The Java implementation of Arcturus requires Java 1.6 or higher.

All software development is carried out using Eclipse.  The CVS
checkout is a self-contained Eclipse project.

There is also an Ant build file which is used to create and deploy
the software.

MINERVA

The principal GUI application, Minerva, can be run by invoking the
main Arcturus JAR file as an application under Windows or OS X and
via the command

  java -jar arcturus.jar

BUILDING ARCTURUS AND MINERVA WITH ANT

There is an Ant build file named build.xml which puts compiled classes
in build/classes and the main Arcturus JAR file in the top-level directory.

The build file also contains targets for creating the Windows stub
application and for deploying the main Arcturus JAR file to the Sanger
internal web server.

Use "ant -p" to list the available build targets.

REQUIRED JAR FILES

Arcturus currently requires the following external JAR files:

  * The MySQL JDBC library.
  
  * The Oracle JDBC library.
  
  * The Java Look-and-Feel Graphics Repository library.
  
  * The JavaMail library.
  
  * The Java Activation Framework library (used by JavaMail).
  
  * The JMX-RMP library.
  
  * The trilead.com SSH library,

They are kept in the "lib" sub-directory.  The manifest file for
the Arcturus JAR file expects them to be in this location, as does
the Ant build file.

WHAT'S IN THE DIFFERENT PACKAGES?

uk.ac.sanger.arcturus is the base package and contains two classes,
Arcturus, which manages global preferences, and ArcturusInstance.
All end-user programs begin by creating an ArcturusInstance object,
which enables them to create ArcturusDatabase objects for the organisms
which they wish to display, manipulate or process.

uk.ac.sanger.arcturus.data contains classes which represent data objects
such as reads, templates, ligations and contigs.

uk.ac.sanger.arcturus.database contains classes which acts as the
object persistence layer between data objects and the relational database.
The only class that end-user programs need to know about is
ArcturusDatabase.

uk.ac.sanger.arcturus.pooledconnection contains classes which implement
a simple connection pool, which ArcturusDatabase objects can use to
acquire connections to the relational database.

uk.ac.sanger.arcturus.gui contains classes which implement the GUI
client software, called Minerva.

uk.ac.sanger.arcturus.test contains test programs which are not generally
intended to be part of the production Arcturus system.

uk.ac.sanger.arcturus.logging contains classes related to the Java logging
framework.  These include handlers which can log errors to a database,
email a report to a user, and display a warning dialog on the screen.

uk.ac.sanger.arcturus.scaffolding contains classes which build and
manipulate contig scaffolds.

uk.ac.sanger.arcturus.people contains classes which encapsulate the
identity of people involved in assembly projects.

uk.ac.sanger.arcturus.oligo contains a package which can be used to
search reads and contigs for oligo sequences.

uk.ac.sanger.arcturus.smithwaterman is a set of classes for performing
Smith-Waterman alignments.

uk.ac.sanger.arcturus.crossmatch contains classes which can parse the
output of Phil Green's cross_match alignment software.

uk.ac.sanger.arcturus.jobrunner is a set of classes for running external
processes via SSH.

uk.ac.sanger.arcturus.utils contains utility classes which do not neatly
fit anywhere else in the framework.
